README.md, before:

# Svelte: Virtual Table

A sortable, virtual table for Svelte.

- [Svelte: Virtual Table](#svelte-virtual-table)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Useage](#useage)
  - [Styling](#styling)
  - [Development Notes](#development-notes)
  - [Inspiration & Compatibility](#inspiration--compatibility)

## Installation

Install this component using

```bash
yarn install svelte-virtual-table
```

or

```bash
npm install svelte-virtual-table
```

, respectively.

## Useage

You can then, after the installation, import it in your app:

```js
import VirtualTable from 'svelte-virtual-table'
```

and use it, for example like so:

```js
let myItemsArray = []

async function getData() {
    let dataItems = []
    for (let page = 1; page < 5; page++) {
        let res = await fetch(
            `https://node-hnapi.herokuapp.com/news?page=${page}`
        )
        let data = await res.json()
        dataItems = dataItems.concat(data)
    }
    items = dataItems
    return items
}

const dataPromise = getData()

// TWO variables that can be bound to the VirtualTable
let start // the index of the first visible item
let end // the index of the last visible item
```

```svelte
{#await dataPromise}
    Loading...
{:then}
    <VirtualTable
        items={myItemsArray}
        class="anyClassIWantToAdd"
        bind:start
        bind:end
    >
        <tr slot="thead">
            <th data-sort="title">Title</th>
            <th data-sort="user">User</th>
            <th data-sort="domain">Domain</th>
            <th data-sort="time" data-sort-initial="descending">Time ago</th>
            <th data-sort="comments_count">Comments</th>
        </tr>
        <tr slot="tbody" let:item>
            <td>
                <a href={item.url} target="_blank">{item.title}</a>
            </td>
            <td>{item.user}</td>
            <td>{item.domain}</td>
            <td>{item.time_ago}</td>
            <td>{item.comments_count}</td>
        </tr>
    </VirtualTable>
{:catch error}
    <p style="color: red">{error.message}</p>
{/await}
```

You can find an example-app in the [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/BernhardWebstudio/svelte-virtual-table/tree/main/example-app).

## Styling

As written in the [Development Notes](#development-notes), table and tbody are unfortunately currently required to have `display: block` set (please, feel free to open a PR with a better implementation).

One other thing that has to be considered: as the table might not have loaded all rows, the width of the rows might be different, depending on which rows are currently displayed. That is why `table-layout: fixed` is used.

Make sure to assign widths to your table cells (see the example-app for a possible solution).

## Development Notes

One of the objectives was to use native HTML `<table>`, `<thead>`, `<tbody>` etc.
As these are not block-type elements, the original intention to use padding as a means to indicate the table's "scrollability" of the inner table is not possible.

There are numerous workarounds, that were attempted:

-   apply a border to `<tbody>`,
-   use `::before`- and `::after`-pseudo elements,
-   increase the height of `<tbody>`'s last- and first-child,
-   use `display: block` on `<table>` and `display: table` on `<tbody>, <tfoot>, <thead>`
-   or use `<tfoot>` and `<thead>` as the elements whose height is changed (and which are kept in the document, no matter if they even have content).

As an example, the pseudo-element approach would work e.g. like this:

```css
tbody::before {
    box-sizing: border-box;
    content: ' ';
    display: block;
    height: var(--p-top);
}
tbody::after {
    box-sizing: border-box;
    content: ' ';
    display: block;
    height: var(--p-bottom);
}
```

Unfortunately, with the first three workarounds, when scrolling down, it can happen that the table continues scrolling without user intervention (though the scrolling can be stopped manually).
This is not the case when scrolling up.

Some observations related to this observation:

-   scrollTop increases with the --p-top
-   changing --p-top and --p-bottom triggers a scroll event
-   scrolling up is not affected
-   unstopped scrolling starts after removing an item from viewport

When the table has `display` set to `block` and the padding of the `<tbody>` is used for the scroll length, the new table (`<tbody>` with `display: table`) cannot accept a `border-collapse: collapse` style.

The last method, using `<tfoot>` and `<thead>` heights too tends to jump a bit when scrolling down. Since the jumps are much smaller, you, as a user, have the choice between the two methods:

You can pass the prop `requireBorderCollapse` with a value that evaluates to true if you want the method using `<tfoot>` and `<thead>` heights, and a value that evaluates to false if you want to use a table being set to `display: block` and `tbody`'s padding.

```svelte
<VirtualTable
    requireBorderCollapse=false
      ...
```

## Inspiration & Compatibility

-   https://svelte.dev/repl/a138b0c8579b4fc8bdde842a9d922b1f?version=3.17.1
-   https://github.com/mattiash/svelte-tablesort
-   https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte-virtual-list

Commit message:

Further progress to get two working possiblities. Probably still some calc mistake somewhere

README.md, after:

# Svelte: Virtual Table

A sortable, virtual table for Svelte.

- [Svelte: Virtual Table](#svelte-virtual-table)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Useage](#useage)
  - [Styling](#styling)
  - [Development Notes](#development-notes)
  - [Inspiration/Compatibility](#inspirationcompatibility)

## Installation

Install this component using

```bash
yarn install svelte-virtual-table
```

or

```bash
npm install svelte-virtual-table
```

, respectively.

## Useage

You can then, after the installation, import it in your app:

```js
import VirtualTable from 'svelte-virtual-table'
```

and use it, for example like so:

```js
let myItemsArray = []

async function getData() {
    let dataItems = []
    for (let page = 1; page < 5; page++) {
        let res = await fetch(
            `https://node-hnapi.herokuapp.com/news?page=${page}`
        )
        let data = await res.json()
        dataItems = dataItems.concat(data)
    }
    items = dataItems
    return items
}

const dataPromise = getData()

// TWO variables that can be bound to the VirtualTable
let start // the index of the first visible item
let end // the index of the last visible item
```

```svelte
{#await dataPromise}
    Loading...
{:then}
    <VirtualTable
        items={myItemsArray}
        class="anyClassIWantToAdd"
        bind:start
        bind:end
    >
        <tr slot="thead" role="row">
            <th data-sort="title">Title</th>
            <th data-sort="user">User</th>
            <th data-sort="domain">Domain</th>
            <th data-sort="time" data-sort-initial="descending">Time ago</th>
            <th data-sort="comments_count">Comments</th>
        </tr>
        <tr slot="tbody" role="row" let:item>
            <td>
                <a href={item.url} target="_blank">{item.title}</a>
            </td>
            <td>{item.user}</td>
            <td>{item.domain}</td>
            <td>{item.time_ago}</td>
            <td>{item.comments_count}</td>
        </tr>
    </VirtualTable>
{:catch error}
    <p style="color: red">{error.message}</p>
{/await}
```

Pay attention to the `role` attributes: those are highly recommended if you want to have the table behave as such also in accessibility contexts. 
While this is not necessarily needed for ordinary tables, this one is required to use `display: block` on the table element (see Development Notes](#development-notes)), which in turn makes these role attributes necessary, still.

You can find an example-app in the [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/BernhardWebstudio/svelte-virtual-table/tree/main/example-app).

## Styling

As written in the [Development Notes](#development-notes), there are a few drawbacks to consider from the current implementation relying on actual `<table>` markup.
Use the property `requireBorderCollapse` to switch between one or the other mode depending on your styling needs.

`<table>` is unfortunately currently required to have `display: block` set (please, feel free to open a PR with a better implementation, or wait until the approach using native `<table>` elements is finally given up on).

One other thing that has to be considered: as the table might not have loaded all rows, the width of the rows might be different, depending on which rows are currently displayed. That is why `table-layout: fixed` is used.
Make sure to assign widths to your table cells (see the example-app for a possible solution).

## Development Notes

One of the objectives was to use native HTML `<table>`, `<thead>`, `<tbody>` etc.
As these are not block-type elements, the original intention to use padding as a means to indicate the table's "scrollability" of the inner table is not possible.

There are numerous workarounds, that were attempted:

-   apply a border to `<tbody>`,
-   use `::before`- and `::after`-pseudo elements,
-   increase the height of `<tbody>`'s last- and first-child,
-   use `display: block` on `<table>` and `display: table` on `<tbody>, <tfoot>, <thead>`
-   or use `<tfoot>` and `<thead>` as the elements whose height is changed (and which are kept in the document, no matter if they even have content).

As an example, the pseudo-element approach would work e.g. like this:

```css
tbody::before {
    box-sizing: border-box;
    content: ' ';
    display: block;
    height: var(--p-top);
}
tbody::after {
    box-sizing: border-box;
    content: ' ';
    display: block;
    height: var(--p-bottom);
}
```

Unfortunately, with the first three workarounds, when scrolling down, it can happen that the table continues scrolling without user intervention (though the scrolling can be stopped manually).
This is not the case when scrolling up.

Some observations related to this problem:

-   scrollTop increases with the --p-top
-   changing --p-top and --p-bottom triggers a scroll event
-   scrolling up is not affected
-   unstopped scrolling starts after removing an item from viewport

The reason is with high probability, that the current calculations are incorrect. Refer to [this codepen](https://codepen.io/BernhardWebstudio/pen/NWggLyG) for some calculation-analysis possibilities.

When the table has `display` set to `block` and the padding of the `<tbody>` is used for the scroll length, the new table (`<tbody>` with `display: table`) cannot accept a `border-collapse: collapse` style, as otherwise, the scrolling behaviour is nonexistent.

The last method is special too, since it only shows the auto-scrolling behaviour when `border-collapse` is set to `collapse`.

You, as a user, have the choice between two methods:

You can pass the prop `requireBorderCollapse` with a value that evaluates to true if you want the method using `<tfoot>` and `<thead>` heights, and a value that evaluates to false if you want to use a table being set to `display: block` and `tbody`'s padding.

```svelte
<VirtualTable
    requireBorderCollapse=false
      ...
```

## Inspiration/Compatibility

-   https://svelte.dev/repl/a138b0c8579b4fc8bdde842a9d922b1f?version=3.17.1
-   https://github.com/mattiash/svelte-tablesort
-   https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte-virtual-list
